Attendees: Manu Sporny, Henry Story, Stéphane Corlosquet, Dave Longley, 
David I. Lehn, Mike Johnson, Reto Bachmann-Gmur, and Doug Schepers.

Scribe: Manu Sporny

Audio logs: http://getwebid.org/meetings/#2010-08-10

Agenda:

1) Updates to Telecon Bridge
2) Bug Tracking
3) Javascript + Flash WebID Implementation
4) WebID Profile Serialization Format
5) Flash+Javascript Implementation Details

Minutes:

Manu: On the Agenda - updates to telecon bridge, pure JS+Flash WebID 
implementation, spec language on any RDF serialization format for WebID 
profiles, integrating FOAF and other vocabs into normative text. Any other
additions to agenda?

Reto: What about formatting of spec - make it minimal.

Manu: So, splitting the spec? 

Reto: Just spec formatting, editing best practices, things like that.

Manu: Want to talk about it at the beginning or end?

Reto: The end

Stephane: Multiple URI entries in SAN... at the end of the call.

Manu: ok, two additions to end of agenda.

Updates to Telecon Bridge
-------------------------

Manu: VoipBot has been updated to include muting/unmuting controls and 
disconnecting people, associating IRC names with people, etc. 

Manu: Reto just found a bug that crashes the voipbot, I'll fix it before the
next meeting. Once that's fixed, we'll have 90% of the functionality that the
IRC telecon bridges have. Any questions about telecon bridge or queue?

Bug Tracking
------------

Manu: We probably want to start recording bugs via some kind of tracking system.
We might miss things at this point. If something is controversial, and there are
edit bouncing - we should raise those things to issues on the telecon.

Manu: So two things - we should start tracking bugs with the spec, the second
issue is how to determine when to log a bug and how do we resolve the issue
on this telephone conversation.

Manu: So, should we log bugs and what's the process for bug tracking?

Reto: Github has good bug features.

Stephane: We started using threads, but that's probably not manageable. Maybe
we should use the github issue tracker. We could also do inline issues in the
spec.

Manu: I agree with Stephane, I think github issue tracking is good and we
don't want to have to deploy a new bug tracking system. I think noting issues
in the spec is also a good thing, but it would be really good for editors to
outline problems that have been raised by the community in the spec text. We
should be very careful not to remove issues from the spec until there is 
agreement. Henry, I don't know if we want a voting mechanism yet... we can
just straw-poll for now.

Henry: Makes sense.

Reto: What about a file in git that tracks issues? We can keep open issues 
in that file.

Manu: So, we could have two different places on where to put bugs?

Stephane: How do we keep the mailing list aware of the discussions happening?
If it's only in a file, everyone has to know that it exists and understand how
to access it. The github issues tracker may be better at letting people
participate in logging bugs.

Manu: Yes, I agree that we want to make this as easy as possible for tracking
bugs. People need to know that that file is there... that's not good.

Stephane: They also would need write access in order to write to the document.

Reto: File and mailing list would prevent repeated issues - things that are
only marginally associated with the spec.

Manu: We don't have to solve this on the mailing list just yet... perhaps a 
straw poll would be good?

PROPOSAL: Use github issue tracker for bugs.

Notes all +1s except for one.

RESOLVED: Use github issue tracker for bugs.

PROPOSAL: Use file in github in to track bugs.

Notes all +1s except for two.

RESOLVED: Use file in github in to track bugs.

Manu: So, looks like we can use both for now. So, we'll use github and include 
bugs in a file for now, Reto could you tend to the bugs.txt file in github?

Reto: Yes. So we're going to have both?

Manu: Yes, for now - let's use both and see which one people end up using more,
I'll probably just use the issue tracker. If you could handle bugs.txt, that 
would be great. Can you take care of that, Reto?

Reto: Yes.

Javascript + Flash WebID Implementation
---------------------------------------

Manu: There is a pure Javascript WebID implementation now, lots of discussion
on the mailing list:

http://blog.digitalbazaar.com/2010/08/07/webid/2/
https://webid.digitalbazaar.com/manage/
https://payswarm.com/webid-demo/

Manu: Just to clarify, what we were trying to do with this demo is demonstrate
that you didn't need any browser capabilities or cert management or os cert
management to perform WebID, you can do it purely in Javascript in Flash. We
needed to have a very simple way to have WebID working.

Manu: Our concern is that the browser native UI is going to confuse most people.
Having to use the native OS certificate generation mechanism is going to 
confuse most people. So, we put together a demo that does all of this stuff
in the browser.

Henry: So, yeah - it's interesting, but to summarize the points on the mailing
list is that I'd like to see your site accept normal web IDs so I can log in,
so I know that your engineers understand WebID as we have it, otherwise, there
is a danger that your engineers are not in the spirit of what's needed.

Henry: Once we have that working, we need to see how they can work together.
There needs to be a description of what you're doing - can Flash interoperate
with native browser WebIDs. I don't think there should be coordination between
sites before we arrive at one. I'd be interested in getting answers on these
topics. Make sense?

Manu: Really quickly, we're definitely going to try to get native browser
WebIDs work. We're hitting implementation problems with that stuff now. So,
one issue is that when you have multiple SSL websites via Apache, and you
turn on client-side SSL certificates as optional, Apache actives it for
every domain. So every domain asks for client-side certificates now. We're
currently working through the bug with Apache. We can't enable WebID with our
sites in this case - so this is one of the problems that we're dealing with.
The specific option is SSLVerifyClientNoCA - there are tehcnical limitations
in apache that may not make that possible.

Henry: So, that's what we're here for - could you outline this problem on
the mailing list? We can work out a solution from there.

Manu: Yes, we want to give people options - browser-based, javascript+Flash
based, etc. It's become somewhat difficult to do this stuff using purely
browser-based mechanisms. We're trying to stay in the spirit of the WebID
spec, but we're hitting implementation issues. We'll release source code
for the demo shortly - so I don't want to make it seem like this is a
centralized solution, because it isn't. It can be installed on any
personal website. 

Manu: Any comments about that?

Reto: How I understood the Flash/javascript implementation, the Flash applet
does the TLS connection, it hands the connection back to the javascript page.
Something similar could be done with Java instead of Flash. Still, this
situation is similar - we need an external service for some of these use cases.
It's not such a complete implementation into the web stack as we might want.
Encoding all of the communication via TLS is our end-goal, how can we do that?

Dave Longley: We can provide some more information on how the Flash 
implementation works.
Just to answer Henry's question - we can interoperate, that's not a problem.
A quick explanation - all of the TLS is done in Javascript - the only reason
we're using Flash is to provide the raw socket interface and cookie storage,
as soon as Web Sockets or LocalStorage matures enough, we can replace Flash
completely with those things.

Manu: Reto, we'll reelease the source code for everything we've done. In fact,
it's already out there since it's all javascript. It does't change anythin gin
the protocol, Henry - it's just that we've implemented the spec in javascript
and Flash. The only reason we've used Flash is because it has the highest 
penetration for the technologies that we need to implement WebID. So, hopefully
this explains it a bit more. We're not trying to reinvent WebID, we're trying
to do a solid implementation of WebID without using any browser cert
management stuff. Does that help explain more about what we're doing?

Henry: Yes, that's interesting. What would be interesting is seeing what we'd
need for interoperation.

Manu: The only thing that one would need for interoperation is installation of 
the Javascript, Flash and perhaps some PHP files. That's it - everything is in
a nice bundle that can be placed onto a web server. What we're trying to do
is make the jQuery equivalent to WebID. All consumers of WebIDs have to do is
instlal some Javascript and Flash on their site and they're good to go. That's
the goal - simplicity.

Henry: So, once concern I have... we're going to have to look at this carefully,
you are comparing login Javascript+Flash ID with a normal login, you're really
speaking about the advantages of this vs. normal login. You were going over the
sequence of steps to create an account with a normal login using e-mail, and
foaf+SSL. NOrmal logins, it's not really. the point isn't to really do a normal
login, it's to create a global login. It's very important to have a RDF data
store, linked data is very important. So, that's why I'm a bit dubious about
doing this in javascript - Javascript doesn't have namespaces, the mapping
of Javascript to RDF isn't clear, those are my hesitations. I'm a bit worried
about the Flash element of this - that seems to be ... it's interesting at the
same time. We need to looka t this in a lot of detail.

Reto: The approach you've taken is good for certain use cases, not for others.
The flash javascript approach ever single page cannot include this Javascript,
it needs to be done in the authentication. Another mechanism needs to be used
for authentication to non-SSL resources... so one doesn't replace the other.
native browser-based is for secure SSl traffic, flash is for login, perhaps.

Manu: Yes, each approach has it's strengths. Someone on IRC said that Apple
doesn't support flash. Well, that's when we fall back to the browser-based
mechanisms. Reto, you're right - there are certain platforms that lend 
themselves more to others. 

Reto: I don't think it's platform, I think it's the stage of development. In
the ultimate scenario, this will be built into the browser. In the long term,
browser is the way we want to go. In the short-term, flash and Javascript can
get us there.

Manu: Henry, you said that you don't know where Javascript and Linked Data mesh,
we're not saying that this stuff replaces the linked data mechanism at all. 
What we're saying is that we are following the WebID spec. We're still using
the full spec, we're not trying to change that, we're just implementing WebID
using Flash+Javascript. There is no danger that we're going to go away from
what the WebID spec is currently saying.

Henry: Well, that's cool. We just need to see how its working and we need to 
see it interoperate. There will be a very important, we need you to iron out
these interoperability concerns. There could be that getting WebID to work in
Flash and Javascript woul dopen up new ideas. So you're using Flash as local
storage, but there is really no reason for local storage when you have remote
storage, right? Unless you play with these concepts... it's a good philosophical
attitude, empty your mind of predujices, do it completely without local
storage. Then prove that you absolutely need it, but if you use flash you
get lazy. In fact, there may be some other way of doing it... is it really
important to have it locally? I need to be able to login with WebID into your
site. There may be a way to solve this that you haven't thought of yet. There
is just a different way of talking about these issues... this Web 2.0 way of
thinking loses site of the interoperability issues. We can help you work this
out and then we can do the opposite, use your system to login on our site. In
the presentation you gave, you gave this issue list, there's flash there's
javascript, there is a whole bunch of peoblems and these problems are not
unimportant, yet they provide interesting uses. It's a complicated new space
to explore. I just wish that when you had presented it that you had shown that
you're into WebID in the way that we've done it now.

Manu: We can't get around the local storage issue because you have to store your
private key locally. That's all we're using it for. That's the way WebID is
designed. That's the way that the browsers store private keys - locally.

Henry: Yes, that's fine... 

Doug: So, I think Henry's point is taken. We are talking about an initial
implementation here and we're talking about one done in script. I don't know if
drilling down into the details of the script implementation is all that
useful. Any implementation gives insight into problems that needs to be worked
out in the spec. I don't think that we should dwell on existing implementations
today. The goal is to get this technology into the browsers. A different 
technique to do cryto or local storage, these are issues that you need to get
around because you're doing a script implementation. This is not the ideal
implementation, but we can't expect it to do everything that a native 
implemenetation woudl be able to do. The fact that it only works in Chrome 
because of the crypto... that's an issue.

Manu: That's not true anymore, it works in more browsers now. It's just that
we didn't have the time to work through the engineering issues in the other
browsers. I agree with you Doug, this is not ideal... but what we're 
demonstrating is that you can do this without native browser technology.

Doug: Yes, but the point isn't the javascript implementation, it's that the
spec is outlining what should eventually happen.

Manu: yes, right. I agree with you on that point.

Manu: Anything else on this issue before we jump to spec language?

Henry: I suppose this issue does highlight many interesting points, such as
the user interface issue... which is important to look at. The point that 
Internet Explorer... looking at different browsers, making a table, saying
which browsers are easiest in Flash+Javascript helps,  what we want is to
make browsers easy to use. We go to the manufacturer and tell them that
/this is how it works now/ but /this is how it could be in the future/. We
need more testers in Internet Explorer, there may be deep hacker tricks so
it's easy. Opera or Chromium. Those are issues that you've brought up with the
flash that are really useful... the user interface issues that you've brought
up. Your implementation is kicking the browsers in the teeth, so we can use
that to grow the community. Perhaps we can see if we can do it with Java too.

Manu: We're all marching towards the same thing, we just have different ways
of getting that. That's perfectly fine, we just need to make sure that the
spec supports these things fairly well.

WebID Profile Serialization Format
----------------------------------

Manu: There was general agreement on the mailing list such that ii supports
alternate formats, but we write the examples in HTML+RDFa in order to influence
the technology that people start choosing. There was a comment on the
WebID mailing list that WebID profiles should be human readable. There was
rough consensus that none of the language should be a MUST - no RDF, RDFa, 
TURTLE, etc. What we can say is that if the client asks for text/html, you MUST
respond with an HTML+RDfa document. Is taht what the general consensus was?

Henry: No. There are two clients - if the client is the Relying Party, the
shop that people want to log into, the client - it should ask for something 
like ordered mimetypes, there is a certain order that is reasonable. The
pure RDF formats first, XHTML the lowest. Not because it's less good, but
simply because many sites may do content negotiation, but not have RDF inside
the HTML. That's how I think ... Reto, can you paste an accept header in 
IRc somewhere? The WebID provider need only provide one well known format.
The request should understand and consume as many as possible. If we can
get GRDDL working, we can get */* working. A JSON format that is RDF-izable
would also be good. We should have something that's updated regularly, a 
list that has formats that are seen inthe wild. Currently it's RDF/XML and
RDFa, I think... most understand TURTLE.

Manu: Is there consensus on the mailing list for that?

Henry: Oh, that's what I wanted to ask - which implementations support which
formats. If 100% support RDF/XML, then presumably, that's what any 
implementation should support. 
We should have an idea of who has implemented what. As far
as the consumer/client goes. We can also have a table of who is publishing.
If consumers only consume RDF/XML, then the producers should only produce
RDf/XML. This is the problem of convention, we are trying to meet at a meeting
point, we can only follow a convention by understanding whta the implementations
are doing.

Reto: I think there is a difference between normative language and convention.
We need to figure out what the spec text is going to mandate, which will
probably align with convention. The consensus was RDF/XML and RDfa MUST 
support those two. Now we have TURTLE in the spec draft.

Manu: Right, that confuses the issue. We can say that the spec can use any
format, but that creates the problem that we now have to support lots of
RDF serialization formats. It creates code bloat. Ideally, we'd consume
XHTML+RDFa only and leave it at that... and maybe RDF/XML - but that requires
us to pull in a big RDF/XML parser library. We really don't want to support
more than that.

Manu: Reto, I don't know if you're worried about code bloat. We're worried about
interoperability and we don't want to support 10 different types of RDF
formats.

Reto: yes, the compromise was to mandate two on the verification side and be
completely open on the WebID profile side. Of course, you want to have a profile
that interoperates with everyone. 

Manu: Yes, I certainly agree with that. I don't know if Henry does or not. Is
that what's in the spec right now?

Reto: I don't know... will have to look.

Manu: Having those examples in the appendix would be good.

Henry: What we have is that we have implementations currently in Ruby and
Python, Perl, Scala, C that use RDF/XMl without a problem, RDFa, it's a question
of being open. Apparently, if you want to be WebID club you have to do /this/.
If someone comes along and says they can add 100 million new users if we just
encode in that way, we don't want to close that door. It's going to be easy 
to get them to add GRDDL to it, if they get stuck, as they will, they will
get stuck and they will think their format is godgiven and they have done
excellent work, so we want to keep open to them. We don't want a format war.
We just need the semantics to be right. The semantics is a MUST. In the spec,
we'll have RDF/XML and RDFa - so those are well known. If people want to push
and implement new things, just use those two.. but the spec isn't going to
impose anything on anyone that makes. The only way to get them to join this
community is to stay open about this stuff.

Jeff: Perhaps it isn't the best time to ask this question, two questions really.
1) what is the relationship between W3C and the WebID spec as it is right now
and 2) What is the status with the W3C proposed WebID working group.

Manu: Right now, this is a completely independent group of the W3C. Our goal is
to start work on something like WebID. Doug had said that W3C might start looking
at technologies like WebID, OpenID, OAuth, and start a WG that is more focused
on this stuff. Right now, we're completely separate from W3C. The hope is that
one day the work will be moved to W3C.

Jeff: So youre working on the WebID spec with the hope that it'll eventually
be moved into W3C grops.

Henry: This is kind of like the Atom group before it went to the IETF. We want
to make the work more formal and eventually roll it into W3C. But if we wait
for W3C, it may take forever, so we're just doing the leg work until W3C thinks
they should get involved, in the mean time, create momentum.

Manu: Top of the hour, anything else we should be aware of over the next two 
weeks? Anything going on, any announcements?

Reto: I posted my proposals for spec editing. Make lines less than 80 characters.
Don't just reformat because you think it looks bad. If you create/modify lines,
make them less than 80 characters.

Manu: That hasn't worked out traditionally in W3C specs, but we can talk about
that after the telecon. Next call in two weeks? Work for everybody?

General agreement...

Manu: Thanks for joining, will speak in two weeks.

*Meeting adjourned*

Reto and Dave Longley stayed on the phone call to discuss Flash+Javascript
Implementation details.

Flash+Javascript Implementation Details
---------------------------------------

Reto: Dave are you still on the line? 

Dave Longley: Yes, I'm here.

Reto: Let's keep the spec text to under 80 character lines, but don't reformat
the entire document. Unless we want to do one huge reformatting pass.

Reto: The JS+Flash implementation, if the other side has an image, how does
the server know who is requesting the image? 

Dave Longley: The way the server interacts with the JS+Flash interface is the same
way that it would occur for the browser's TLS connection. JS+Flash is just a
drop in replacement for TLS. So, it's the same.

Dave Longley: They have a certificate that identifies you, your WebID. And they use
that certificate in TLS. So, the only difference is the TLS is done in 
Javascript instead of natively in the browser.

Reto: Ok, so it would get the certificate from the TLS connection.

Dave Longley: It would work the same way that WebID would in any other case.

End of minutes.

