Attendees: Stephane Corlosquet, Reto Bachmann-Gmur, Manu Sporny,
Henry Story, Dave Longley, and David I. Lehn

Scribe: Reto Bachmann-Gmur

Agenda:

1) WebID news and mailing list discussion

2) WebID Errors and HTTP Status Codes
   http://github.com/msporny/webid-spec/issues#issue/8

3) Easy cross-browser certificate transfer
   http://github.com/msporny/webid-spec/issues#issue/4

4) WebFinger integration in the spec
   http://github.com/msporny/webid-spec/issues/#issue/10

5) Any other business

Topic: WebID news and mailing list discussion

Manu: has there been major discussions on the list
Stephane: multiple san uri is biggest change in the spec
Stephane: other issues... using DER instead of regular certificates
Reto: othe discussions: long term keys
Reto: What do you do with short-lived keys?
Reto: As long as you dereference WebID, you're fine... but what if you
want to optionally allow WebID association and signing?
Reto: Signing browser cert with WebID could be one way to do this.
Reto: So, in the browser you could sign the certificate.
Reto: Proposal would be to allow this without mandating it.
Henry: I'm trying to find an n3 model of access, control, ssl , tls this
would help go through the reasoning of different proposals, and their
affect on security and other features it seems to me. unless I
understood reto's proposal really badly, by removing the public key we
remove the ability to say that a certificate is no longer valid... by
removing a public key from the profile we can do something which in tls
is really complicated... Revocation list... there is revocation lists
and another protocol which are both made unnecessary by online
validation of keys also there are other features like using the subject
alternative name... one of reto's key points and motivation I think is
that you can also sign... server certificates... there is the
perspectives project which can be sued for server cert verification...
so we could use this for verifying server certs
Manu: we will still have the current possibilities
Henry: we should make more detailed proposal... looking at the semantics
of tls... to see if something improves security
Henry: this is something tha should also be discussed aat a webid conf
Manu: reto I though you have anotherpoint? is there a solid proposal
Reto: No solid proposal yet, i've been talking to Bruno and how this
might work over TLS.
Henry: it doesn't have to be too solid... initially :-)
Henry: point of order, are we following the topics?
Manu: please use the queue
Henry: hmm can everyone hear what I'm saying?
Manu: yeah, think it's you, Henry
Henry: manu was asking you to use the queue
Reto: Enabling long-term keys so other ways of security are possible. We
should look at perspectives protocol... "reasonable security"
Reto: We should delegate this stuff to the Perspectives project... their
security is based on user interaction "Do I want to take this risk for
this situation." - not meant for automated security.
Henry: having problems with Blink? just rebooted Not sure if it is my
network... I'll try again... can't hear anything
Manu: first item on agenda

Topic: ISSUE-8 HTTP Status codes
http://github.com/msporny/webid-spec/issues#issue/8

Stephane: did we go through the possible errors?
Manu: it doesn't make sense to bubble up tls errors to the http layer
it seems like breaking the encapsulation between tls and http
there might be other error conditions affection http
however this would tie the spc to http
we could have an optional clause for http
Reto: which would be errors that are not on the tls level?
Manu: acl related stuff
if somebody accesses something she isn't allowed to access
would get forbidden
Reto: WebID protocol is about authentication, authorization is out of scope.
Reto: Might be some interaction, authorization issue - user may want to
authenticate.
but acl is a good thing to discuss on foaf-protocols
Manu: it sound we don't have enough information and solid usecases
proposal to postpone
no objection
Henry: ah ok... that could be interesting... yes. makes sense

Topic: Easy Cross-browser certificate transfer
http://github.com/msporny/webid-spec/issues#issue/4

Manu: its basically about transfering webid from one browser to the next
one cert per browser is what you need, but google says they already
tested the approach
so their approach is that the private key is in the cloud
http://www.links.org/files/nigori/nigori-protocol-01.html
and only decrypted by the party you really trust your identity to
the cloud can be as secure as encryption
Henry: I agree with manu
you have a lot of options
like uri, password, sms one time password
if google is using one-time passord
this makes it easier
the problme on public terminal
is when you decrypt your private key there, it's available to the client
Reto: Having private key in the cloud (missed).
yes, there are a number of options. the google option Requires user to
remember a URL+password. If you are on a public terminal those will be
noticed, and then can saved.
Reto: This is very similar to using browser key to .. private key on the
host that you're... one hour certificate, sms to log in... reasonable
for public terminals.
Manu: i wanted to point out
that there is no download of the private key to the public terminal, the
public terminal never sees the private key
it works like oauth
except its more app friendly
Henry: oh so then you are moving to oauth, or open style
Manu: that's a different protocol
tehre's no difference to having a webid provider out there
you need username an pwd
Nigori protocol
Manu compares webid to nigori protocol
Manu: webid could work well with nigori
this are not compeeting technologies
we keep coming back to the public terminal
first discuss mechanism were openid
and now reto's proposal of having key signed by webid
with Nigori, you have your private key in the cloud
Henry: ok
Manu: the key point is you (almost) don't need to ever have your secret
key unencrypted

Topic: TLS Client certificate selection

Henry: last week we had issues
one was the tls client cert selection?
nobody commented on it
Henry goes off to a link to the e-mail.

Topic: WebFinger integration in the spec
http://github.com/msporny/webid-spec/issues/#issue/10

Manu: should we mention webfinger as a potential webid discovery mechanism
webfinger works more with public terminal problem again
you don't have a browser that is capable of using a client cert
they might use nigori protocol
we can't tell them that they have to enter there webid
probably
maybe just the domain? that would work
but for public terminals we could support discovery of webid though
webfinger
Henry: what we discussed is using webfinger in the cert
Henry: it is feasible even if its a bit a longer way to get to your profile
Manu: webfinger is a usability trick, we can use it to solve the public
terminal problem
when you gives somebody a login dialog
if they can't select the webid in the browser they can enter email
the only real piece of information people can memorize
is the email address
well two things actually
login to social network site might be remembered as well
so twitter or facebook login would work as well
but using webfinger to ask for email address would be easier
we are depending on webfinger
as a a backup meachnaism for getting to the webid document
Henry: it seems like a good idea
there is the Nascar problem
there will never be a login box
because the server can verify that the client has a wbid
before http connection
so if there's a webid no need to show the nascar box
Manu: are you saying that the way this mechanism could work
they go to the http website
a login button on the top
you may not want to give the webid on first connection
so you want them to click login button
Henry: if browser gets better and in future you'll have everything
behind https
in the browser you can easily select a certificate
Manu: the case we're talking about is what happens when they don't have
a webid
if we don't have a nascar box we just ask for the email
in the ideal future
either webid or type in your email address
Henry: there's nothing simpler than entering an email
trying to see the link from openid to webid
....
henry describes mechanism
Manu: you could do OpenID, or use nigori+WebID
you can discover profile
with email
Reto: what could happen with clereza, there is an email to find WebID,
still have the password issue
Reto: clereza can provide the WebID
Reto: if on public terminal, I have to remember where I got my WebID
(webfinger can be useful) but I stil need the pwd
Reto: temporary certs for this public terminal seems more appropriate
Manu: there ar multiple ways: password, temporaary certs, nigori
Reto: if you're on pub term, you still need a pwd, like a one time pwd
problem, what do you use this pwd for? like non webID stuff like openID
Reto: do you need one pwd for one or many pwd? for WebID you need max 1
pwd (or zero when on your machine)
Henry: askes Manu to describe more in detail
how webfinger and webid can interact
Manu: the biggest push back is the publc terminal problem
this a way that is most often to used to dismiss the WebID
Henry: agrees that the public terminal thing always comes up
back to google sms one time pwd
its a complicated issue
what we should do is say, yeah in that case use openid qith one time pwd
Manu: we need something to tell people about the WebID problem
Stephane: should we wrap up the call?
Manu: yes, we need to end the call.
Henry: I can see where manu is coming from
imagine joe smith going to a public terminal
he goes to his favourite website
he doesn't understand he has to go to his personal profile space to login
you and me we know we go to clerezza.me and do what is needed
not so joe
he enters the email address
the profile is found
the site sees a lot of certs
and say "hey joe, you probably have to go there, rather than enter a pwd
here"

Topic: Any other business

Manu: next 2 weeks?
Henry: orghanizing webid summit
not in the next two weeks
there should be an european version
as most of us are in europe
or simultaneously something in america
because we can't go without the americans
the pub key thing
which hopefully works out on the list
on october 15
identity workshop in london
would be good to have a few people to go there
if could present something
Manu: good idea

End of minutes.

